---
title: What&#39;s New in v20.1.0
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v20.1.0.
---

## May XX, 2020

With the release of CockroachDB v20.2, we’ve made a variety of performance, resiliency, and usability improvements. Check out a comprehensive [summary of the most significant user-facing changes](#summary) and then [upgrade to CockroachDB v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html). You can also read more about these changes in the [v20.1 blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cockroachdb-19dot2-release/) or sign up for our [live webinar on XX](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/webinars/19-2-release).

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

## Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.0.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.0.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.1.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.0.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

## Docker image

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.1.0
~~~

## Summary

This section summarizes the most significant, user-facing changes in v20.1.0. For a complete list of features and changes, including bug fixes and performance improvements, see the [release notes](index.html#testing-releases) for previous testing releases.

- [CockroachCloud](#cockroachcloud)
- [Core features](#core-features)
- [Enterprise features](#enterprise-features)
- [Backward-incompatible changes](#backward-incompatible-changes)
- [Known limitations](#known-limitations)
- [Documentation](#documentation)

<style>
    table td:first-child {
        min-width: 225px;
    }
</style>

### CockroachCloud


### Core features

These features are freely available in the core version and do not require an enterprise license.

Feature | Description
--------|------------
xxx | xxx

### Enterprise features

These features require an [enterprise license](../v19.2/enterprise-licensing.html). Register for a 30-day trial license [here](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/get-cockroachdb/), or consider testing enterprise features locally using the [`cockroach demo`](../v19.2/cockroach-demo.html) CLI command, which starts an in-memory CockroachDB cluster with a temporary enterprise license pre-loaded. [CockroachCloud clusters](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/) also include all enterprise features.

Feature | Description
--------|------------
xxx | xxx

### Backward-incompatible changes

Before [upgrading to CockroachDB v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), be sure to review the following backward-incompatible changes and adjust your application as necessary.

- The `extract()` [built-in function](../v20.1/functions-and-operators.html) with sub-second arguments (millisecond, microsecond) is now Postgres-compatible and returns the total number of seconds in addition to sub-seconds instead of returning only sub-seconds.

- Casting intervals to integers and floats is now Postgres-compatible and values a year at 365.25 days in seconds instead of 365 days.

- The combination of the [`CHANGEFEED`](../v20.1/change-data-capture.html) options `format=experimental_avro`, `envelope=key_only`, and `updated` is now rejected. This is because the use of `key_only` prevents any rows with updated fields from being emitted, which renders the `updated` option meaningless.

- The [`cockroach init`](../v20.1/cockroach-init.html) CLI command now waits for server readiness and thus no longer fails when a mistaken server address is provided.

- The `cockroach user` CLI command has been removed. It was previously deprecated in CockroachDB v19.2. Note that a v19.2 client (supporting `cockroach user`) can still operate user accounts in a v20.1 server.

- CockroachDB now creates files without read permissions for the "others" group. Sites that automate file management (e.g., log collection) using multiple user accounts now must ensure that the CockroachDB server and the management tools running on the same system are part of a shared unix group.

- The [`GRANT`](../v20.1/grant.html) and [`REVOKE`](../v20.1/revoke.html) statements now require that the requesting user already have the target privileges themselves. For example, `GRANT SELECT ON t TO foo` requires that the requesting user already have the `SELECT` privilege on `t`.

- During an [upgrade to v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), ongoing [schema changes](online-schema-changes.html) will stop making progress, and it won't be possible to manipulate them via [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)/[`RESUME JOB`](resume-job.html)/[`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html) statements. Once the upgrade has been finalized, these schema changes will run to completion.

- During an [upgrade to v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), new [schema changes](../v20.1/online-schema-changes.html) will be blocked and return an error, with the exception of [`CREATE TABLE`](../v20.1/create-table.html) statements without foreign key references and no-op schema change statements that use `IF NOT EXISTS`. Also, ongoing schema changes started will stop making progress, and it won't be possible to manipulate them via [`PAUSE JOB`](../v20.1/pause-job.html)/[`RESUME JOB`](../v20.1/resume-job.html)/[`CANCEL JOB`](../v20.1/cancel-job.html) statements. Once the upgrade has been finalized, ongoing schema changes will run to completion and new schema changes will be allowed.

### Known limitations

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v20.1, with suggested workarounds where applicable, see [Known Limitations](../v20.1/known-limitations.html).

### Documentation

Topic | Description
------|------------
xxx | xxx
